All right, my friends, I think we now have a plan.
So when we create the order instead of our test file, we're going to randomly generate a amount or
the price for the order.
Then when that goes off to the Stripe API, it should have some amount for that very specific amount.
Well then later on inside the test file it request a list of the ten most recent charges.
We should be able to then iterate through that list of ten charges and find a charge with that same
randomly generated amount.
Now, the one thing to keep in mind here is something that's going to make our lives just slightly,
slightly difficult.
Remember that inside the order we are providing a price that is in units of dollars.
But for the charge that gets sent off to the Stripe API, it's going to be in units of cents.
So we are going to generate a price.
And then when we try to find it inside of our list of charges, we just have to remember to multiply
that price by 100 to go from dollars over to cents.
Okay, so let's get to it inside of my test.
Right above the order.
I'm going to randomly generate a price.
So I will do a math.
Random.
Times 100,000.
And I'm going to wrap that with a math flaw.
Well then provide the price as the price property for the order itself.
And naturally, I can condense that down to just price.
So now whenever our route handler creates the charge with the Gest API or the Stripe API, it's going
to put that randomly generated amount inside there, times 100.
So after we make that request, we're then going to write out some code right here to get a list of
the ten most recent charges we have created.
And inside that list, we will try to find a charge with a price equal to or an amount equal to price
times 100.
So how do we list out all the ten most recent charges?
Well, we were just looking at the API for a moment to go.
So we're going to use Stripe charges list.
And if we want to, we could put in the optional limit amount right there.
So limit is the number of recent charges we want to get.
The default is ten, but that can go up to 100.
Then one thing for you to be aware of is that in the response we get back from that call, the list
of charges is going to be nested on this data property.
So we're going to take a look at the data property.
We will iterate through that thing, take a look at each charge and try to find one with the correct
amount.
So after we make our request.
Well, then define Stripe charges and that will be a wait stripe that charges that list.
And again, if we wanted to, we could increase the limit here, say up to 50.
The limit that we use right here really just comes down to how often we expect to be running multiple
copies of this test suite at the same time.
If for some reason we are running ten copies of this test suite at the same time, if we rely upon the
default value of ten right here as opposed to 50, then it's possible that when we go to fetch our list
of charges, we might accidentally push out the charts that we are looking for.
So by increasing this to 50, it pretty much reduces the chance of that to near zero.
Now we're going to iterate over Stripe charges data and try to find the appropriate charge.
So I'll say.
Stripe charge.
Is Stripe charges data fined and for every charge.
I want to iterate over each one and I'm going to return true for the first charge that has an amount
property because remember they have the amount property equal to our price times 100.
So I'm going to return charge amount equal to.
Price times 100.
So now we should be able to expect that Stripe charge to be defined.
So right now, this test is really just going to make sure that we create a charge with the appropriate
amount assigned to it.
Let's now save this.
And go back over to our terminal and see how we're doing.
You'll notice that it takes a little bit longer to run that test file now because we are reaching out
to the real Stripe API.
But it does look like our test passed.
Awesome.
Now, if we want to try to make this thing fail, we could go back over to our handler itself.
So here's the route handler.
I'll go down to our code where we create the charge and I'll comment that out.
So now we are not creating a charge at all.
And that means that when we try to go to get our list of most recent charges, we should not find one
with the appropriate price.
And of course, that should make our test fail.
And there we go.
All right.
Well, this definitely works.
Now, if we wanted to, I'm going to uncomment that, by the way.
Now, if we wanted to back inside of our test file, we could take a deeper look at the Stripe charge
object and make some more assertions about it.
So, for example, we could make sure that it has the appropriate currency.
We can make sure that it's got the correct somehow inspect the token or something like that.
Maybe you just take a look at the currency would be enough.
So I'll do an expect stripe charge dot currency.
To equal USD.
It is possible for strike charge to be undefined, by the way, because we are using a fine statement
right here.
So once again, right after strip charge, we'll put in the exclamation to tell TypeScript, don't sweat
it.
We technically are checking to make sure that the value is defined on the line right above.
TypeScript just doesn't really know how to interpret that line.
So I'll save that and run it.
And.
There we go.
All right.
So again, it is really up to you whether you want to use a mocked version of Stripe or if you want
to use the real version.
Personally, I like to use the real version because even though it's a little bit slower, well, really
a lot slower to run, it definitely is far more realistic and it makes sure that my code is working
as expected.
The other nice thing here is that we can add in a different token, so maybe a completely invalid token,
and we can make sure that our route handler handles that in some appropriate fashion.
It might be kind of hard to test out an invalid token if we were mocking out the API because we might
not really know how to interpret a response from the API or how the API is really going to respond if
we give an invalid token.
Okay.
So that is it for a more realistic test.
So we'll take a pause right here and move on in just a moment.